carat-config(1) -- Set carat configuration options
=====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`carat config` [<name> [<value>]]

## DESCRIPTION

This command allows you to interact with carat's configuration system.
Carat retrieves its configuration from the local application (`app/.carat/config`),
environment variables, and the user's home directory (`~/.carat/config`),
in that order of priority.

Executing `carat config` with no parameters will print a list of all
carat configuration for the current carat, and where that configuration
was set.

Executing `carat config <name>` will print the value of that configuration
setting, and where it was set.

Executing `carat config <name> <value>` will set that configuration to the
value specified for all carats executed as the current user. The configuration
will be stored in `~/.carat/config`. If <name> already is set, <name> will be
overridden and user will be warned.

Executing `carat config --global <name> <value>` works the same as above.

Executing `carat config --local <name> <value>` will set that configuration to
the local application. The configuration will be stored in `app/.carat/config`.

Executing `carat config --delete <name>` will delete the configuration in both
local and global sources. Not compatible with --global or --local flag.

Executing carat with the `BUNDLE_IGNORE_CONFIG` environment variable set will
cause it to ignore all configuration.

## BUILD OPTIONS

You can use `carat config` to give carat the flags to pass to the gem
installer every time carat tries to install a particular gem.

A very common example, the `mysql` gem, requires Snow Leopard users to
pass configuration flags to `gem install` to specify where to find the
`mysql_config` executable.

    gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

Since the specific location of that executable can change from machine
to machine, you can specify these flags on a per-machine basis.

    carat config build.mysql --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config

After running this command, every time carat needs to install the
`mysql` gem, it will pass along the flags you specified.

## CONFIGURATION KEYS

Configuration keys in carat have two forms: the canonical form and the
environment variable form.

For instance, passing the `--without` flag to [carat install(1)][carat-install]
prevents Carat from installing certain groups specified in the Gemfile(5). Carat
persists this value in `app/.carat/config` so that calls to `Carat.setup`
do not try to find gems from the `Gemfile` that you didn't install. Additionally,
subsequent calls to [carat install(1)][carat-install] remember this setting and skip those
groups.

The canonical form of this configuration is `"without"`. To convert the canonical
form to the environment variable form, capitalize it, and prepend `BUNDLE_`. The
environment variable form of `"without"` is `BUNDLE_WITHOUT`.

Any periods in the configuration keys must be replaced with two underscores when
setting it via environment variables. The configuration key `local.rack` becomes
the environment variable `BUNDLE_LOCAL__RACK`.

## LIST OF AVAILABLE KEYS

The following is a list of all configuration keys and their purpose. You can
learn more about their operation in [carat install(1)][carat-install].

* `path` (`BUNDLE_PATH`):
  The location on disk to install gems. Defaults to `$GEM_HOME` in development
  and `vendor/carat` when `--deployment` is used
* `frozen` (`BUNDLE_FROZEN`):
  Disallow changes to the `Gemfile`. Defaults to `true` when `--deployment`
  is used.
* `without` (`BUNDLE_WITHOUT`):
  A `:`-separated list of groups whose gems carat should not install
* `bin` (`BUNDLE_BIN`):
  Install executables from gems in the carat to the specified directory.
  Defaults to `false`.
* `gemfile` (`BUNDLE_GEMFILE`):
  The name of the file that carat should use as the `Gemfile`. This location
  of this file also sets the root of the project, which is used to resolve
  relative paths in the `Gemfile`, among other things. By default, carat
  will search up from the current working directory until it finds a
  `Gemfile`.
* `ssl_ca_cert` (`BUNDLE_SSL_CA_CERT`):
  Path to a designated CA certificate file or folder containing multiple
  certificates for trusted CAs in PEM format.
* `ssl_client_cert` (`BUNDLE_SSL_CLIENT_CERT`):
  Path to a designated file containing a X.509 client certificate
  and key in PEM format.
* `cache_path` (`BUNDLE_CACHE_PATH`): The directory that carat will place
  cached gems in when running <code>carat package</code>, and that carat
  will look in when installing gems.
* `disable_multisource` (`BUNDLE_DISABLE_MULTISOURCE`): When set, Gemfiles
  containing multiple sources will produce errors instead of warnings. Use
  `carat config --delete disable_multisource` to unset.

In general, you should set these settings per-application by using the applicable
flag to the [carat install(1)][carat-install] or [carat package(1)][carat-package] command.

You can set them globally either via environment variables or `carat config`,
whichever is preferable for your setup. If you use both, environment variables
will take preference over global settings.

## LOCAL GIT REPOS

Carat also allows you to work against a git repository locally
instead of using the remote version. This can be achieved by setting
up a local override:

    carat config local.GEM_NAME /path/to/local/git/repository

For example, in order to use a local Rack repository, a developer could call:

    carat config local.rack ~/Work/git/rack

Now instead of checking out the remote git repository, the local
override will be used. Similar to a path source, every time the local
git repository change, changes will be automatically picked up by
Carat. This means a commit in the local git repo will update the
revision in the `Gemfile.lock` to the local git repo revision. This
requires the same attention as git submodules. Before pushing to
the remote, you need to ensure the local override was pushed, otherwise
you may point to a commit that only exists in your local machine.

Carat does many checks to ensure a developer won't work with
invalid references. Particularly, we force a developer to specify
a branch in the `Gemfile` in order to use this feature. If the branch
specified in the `Gemfile` and the current branch in the local git
repository do not match, Carat will abort. This ensures that
a developer is always working against the correct branches, and prevents
accidental locking to a different branch.

Finally, Carat also ensures that the current revision in the
`Gemfile.lock` exists in the local git repository. By doing this, Carat
forces you to fetch the latest changes in the remotes.

## MIRRORS OF GEM SOURCES

Carat supports overriding gem sources with mirrors. This allows you to
configure rubygems.org as the gem source in your Gemfile while still using your
mirror to fetch gems.

    carat config mirror.SOURCE_URL MIRROR_URL

For example, to use a mirror of rubygems.org hosted at

    carat config mirror.http://rubygems.org http://rubygems-mirror.org

## CREDENTIALS FOR GEM SOURCES

Carat allows you to configure credentials for any gem source, which allows
you to avoid putting secrets into your Gemfile.

    carat config SOURCE_HOSTNAME USERNAME:PASSWORD

For example, to save the credentials of user `claudette` for the gem source at
`gems.longerous.com`, you would run:

    carat config gems.longerous.com claudette:s00pers3krit

Or you can set the credentials as an environment variable like this:

    export BUNDLE_GEMS__LONGEROUS__COM="claudette:s00pers3krit"
